

CLASSIC POWER RANKINGS FORMULA:
exp win:
1/(1+10^(({Average Of Participants})/{Factor(500)}))
                                        note: cranking up this factor dampens the changes of exp win from power gaps. not sure we really need to fuck with it too much. just half of the default rating
end rating: 
{Starting Rating}+({Weighting}*{K-Factor(200)}*({Actual Win Weighting(0-1)}-{EXP Win}))


keep this general structure. it's good it needs to have new variables.

TAG MATCHES:
adjust {Actual Win} number depending on if you got the pin or not. not by much, but by a little
MAYBE the reduction you get for not getting the pin is more if you aren't an official team?
IF PARTNERS = EXISTING TEAM
    pin getter: 1, others: 0.9
IF PARTNERS NOT EXISTING TEAM, BUT ARE FACTION MATES:
    pin getter: 1, others: 0.85
IF NEITHER TAG PARTNERS OR FACTION MATES:
    pin getter: 1, others: 0.8
i want it to weight a little more towards a guy who's always the one actually winning tag matches, because he's the one actually presented as stronger

TAG TEAMS:
maybe there's a number calculated for that tag team's matches and then also it's modified by an average of each guy's singles record
if penta and fenix are also winning a lot of singles matches, that helps their tag rating.
remember: power level should reflect perceptions. factor everything that affects how a wrestler is percieved


SHOW WEIGHTING:
i think this would affect EXP win, right? give it, i dunno, a 10% shift depending on if it's regular TV, a b-show, or PPV
DARK / ELEVATION: 0.8
DYNAMITE / RAMPAGE / COLLISION / BOTB: 1.0
PPV: 1.2

maybe this is just the straight-up weighting. i want it to dampen or enhance the total shift. a loss on dark shouldn't kill you, but a win on dark isn't as much as a win on TV

TITLE MATCH WEIGHTING:
the point loss for a guy who loses a title match should be less. just being in a big match is usually a good sign.
obviously, increased point gain for winner as well
maybe a title holder losing does have an increased penalty, just to offset the inflation you get through a successful title run?
on the other hand, i DO want people to drop out of the top 5 after losing title matches. test a few different approaches


WRESTLER STARTING RANKINGS:
STARTING NUMBER * SHOW MODIFIER * X-Factor
if a wrestler is debuting with a loss on dark, we can assume they're a jobber and give them a more significant downgrade.

maybe TV debut = 1000, dark debut = 800, dark loser debut = 500, ppv debut = 1200?


HOW NUMBERS SHOULD FEEL
i want them to get high. i want guys at the top of the rankings to break 9000, for obvious reasons.
maybe add an x-factor boost to wins? adjusting the k-factor just more heavily weights swings both down and up. need to have a separate X that's 1 if loser and 1.X if win


DECAY
this then becomes one of the more complex ones. after, let's say 3 weeks without a match, a score begins decaying at a rate that increases the longer they go without wrestling.
maybe start at 5% a week and increase it on a curve?
after let's say 8 weeks without a match a guy is moved to the INACTIVE rankings.
does decay still happen in inactive? probably not, right?
so the page would have ACTIVE and INACTIVE but would probably also need ALUMNI. that would be a manual move. maybe there's a list of potential alumnis on the admin page, and after 6 months guys get put on it
so it surfaces to you, the admin, guys that you should consider moving into the alumni rankings
like, kenny omega is on inactive. he's injured. cody rhodes left the company, so he should not be on inactive.
inactive implies returns
maybe guys can be moved to inactive manually, but still get the 8 weeks of decay

STREAKS
multiple wins in a row increases the value of each successive win. a percentage that increases.
this would probably be a huge contributor to the big ratings at the top that I want
would have to have a cap, since guys like to have massive streaks in aew. top guys don't lose like ever

ADVANCED DECAY
i like the idea of a win's actual contribution to a rating decaying over time - it's more important when it's fresh. after a gap, let's say a month, it begins "settling"
as it goes through each result when calculating ratings, there's a modifier of how many weeks ago a match was. 0-8? no change. at 8+, it starts decaying until it hits a floor.
obviously it never completely fades, but i want the ratings to weigh towards recent wins. what have you done for me lately

TITLE MATCHES
i want someone who lost a title match to drop out of the top 5 every time. maybe it's a big points drop that decays
debuff that is reduced by each win afterwards. let's say it's a 20% drop, then your next two wins - if they're within a month - are more heavily weighted.
if you get right back on the horse then you get most of your lost points back

SO.
once i get a few months of cagematch data, we get a version up and running with the BASIC formula. start expanding it, tweaking values and seeing what happens, adding tons of comments to track what each part does

